# Rationale

There is a minor amount of rationale to undertaking this effort.  This involves forking an item on CTAN known as [newspaper](https://ctan.org/pkg/newspaper) to be used as a downstream package to be called `samizdat`.  It won't be pretty but there needs to be a way to get news out in a quick and dirty fashion.

The word `samizdat` comes to us from Russian.  What does it mean?  I prefer the definition of "underground press".  As we head into the presidential campaign year of 2024 we're going to be facing a misinformation, disinformation, and malinformation mess.  It is going to take a herculean effort to get *reliable* information about local events to people.  If you're able to keep a neighborhood newspaper down to two pages printed on Letter-size paper you might have a chance of being able to afford printing it out to distribute as well as distributing it online.

I've been fiddling with this already using the vanilla [newspaper](https://ctan.org/pkg/newspaper) package.  Consult my work on Launchpad in the [auto-newspaper](https://code.launchpad.net/~skellat/+git/auto-newspaper) project to see where that has gone.  In short, you can essentially set up a core in LaTeX to provide your consistent "brand image" for the paper.  Your authors and correspondents can submit their materials in Markdown format and the [markdown](https://ctan.org/pkg/markdown) package will import it.  You do need to establish length and language standards to ensure you stay within a two page max to make it easy to distribute.

Doing this has a major degree of importance.  Local news stories need to be told.  With the zone being crapflooded in 2024 there is a great risk of local news getting lost.  Donald Trump has already said he wants to be dictator on the first day of a second term.  He's already said he's going to be an instrument of retribution.  It is time to honor the threat and do what is necessary to preserve an American way of life.  If that means having an underground press form of news to preserve some semblance of "life going on" then so be it.
